README.md, before:

# GitHug

**Find your code mate.** Discover new GitHub users you don't follow yet, matched by your stack and interests.

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue?logo=react)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-7-purple?logo=vite)
![Netlify](https://img.shields.io/badge/Netlify-ready-00C7B7?logo=netlify)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/e98b7c2e-e642-4595-be45-e86d5ec132f8/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/githug/deploys)

## Features

- GitHub OAuth authentication
- Find **new users** by location, languages & starred repos
- Automatically excludes people you already follow
- Dark/light mode
- Fast & responsive UI
- Deploy-ready for Netlify
- **Architecture**: Separated Client (React) and Server (Netlify Functions)

## Architecture

GitHug uses a **hybrid architecture** to ensure security and performance:

- **Client (Frontend)**: React + Vite. Handles the UI, matching logic, and caching.
- **Server (Backend)**: Netlify Functions. Handles the secure OAuth token exchange with GitHub.

This separation ensures your `client_secret` never exposes to the browser.
To run the full application locally, you use the Netlify CLI to spin up both the frontend dev server and the functions server.

```bash
# Clone & install
git clone https://github.com/davidesantangelo/githug.git
cd githug
npm install

# Configure (see Setup below)
cp .env.example .env

# Run full stack (Split Terminal - Recommended)

# Terminal 1: Backend (Netlify Functions)
npm run dev:functions

# Terminal 2: Frontend (Vite)
npm run dev

# Or Vite only (mock mode, no OAuth)
npm run dev
```

- **Frontend**: [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173)
- **Backend**: [http://localhost:9999](http://localhost:9999)

## Setup

1. Create a [GitHub OAuth App](https://github.com/settings/developers) → **OAuth Apps** → **New OAuth App**
2. Set callback URL: `http://localhost:5173/callback`

   > **Important**: Use port **5173** even with `netlify dev` (port 8888 is just a proxy layer).

3. Copy Client ID & generate a Client Secret
4. Edit `.env`:

4. Edit `.env` (Set ports correctly):

```env
# Frontend (exposed to browser)
GITHUG_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
GITHUG_FUNCTION_URL=http://localhost:9999/.netlify/functions/auth

# Backend (Netlify function - keep secret!)
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
```

📖 See [SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md](SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md) for detailed instructions.

## Deploy to Netlify

1. Push to GitHub
2. Connect repo on [netlify.com](https://app.netlify.com)
3. Add environment variables (same as above, with production URLs)
4. Update GitHub OAuth App callback to `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback`
5. Deploy!

## Project Structure

```
githug/
├── src/
│   ├── App.jsx           # Main app component
│   ├── services/
│   │   └── github.js     # GitHub API & OAuth
│   └── lib/
│       └── utils.js      # Utilities
├── netlify/
│   └── functions/
│       └── auth.js       # OAuth token exchange
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify config
└── .env.example          # Env template
```

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Frontend only (Mock mode/UI) |
| `netlify dev` | Start Full Stack (Client + Functions) |
| `npm run dev:functions` | Start Functions server only |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | Preview production build |
| `npm run test` | Run tests in watch mode |
| `npm run test:run` | Run tests once |
| `npm run test:coverage` | Run tests with coverage report |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Document matching algorithm and improve auth error handling
Added a detailed explanation of the matching algorithm to the README, outlining the weighted factors used for user matching. Updated authentication error handling in App.jsx to silently ignore expired token errors while displaying other authentication errors to the user.

README.md, after:

# GitHug

**Find your code mate.** Discover new GitHub users you don't follow yet, matched by your stack and interests.

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-19-blue?logo=react)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-7-purple?logo=vite)
![Netlify](https://img.shields.io/badge/Netlify-ready-00C7B7?logo=netlify)
[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/e98b7c2e-e642-4595-be45-e86d5ec132f8/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/githug/deploys)

## Features

- GitHub OAuth authentication
- Find **new users** by location, languages & starred repos
- Automatically excludes people you already follow
- Dark/light mode
- Fast & responsive UI
- Deploy-ready for Netlify
- **Architecture**: Separated Client (React) and Server (Netlify Functions)

## Matching Algorithm

GitHug uses a weighted scoring system (0-100%) to find your best matches. It analyzes your public GitHub profile and compares it with potential candidates.

**Key Factors:**

1.  **Tech Stack (30%)**: High overlap in your primary languages (e.g. both use Rust & TypeScript).
2.  **Admired Work (20%)**: Matches who are maintainers of repositories you've starred.
3.  **Shared Interests (18%)**: Common topics in repositories and bio (e.g. "machine-learning", "react").
4.  **Bio Context (12%)**: Keywords in their bio that match your interests.
5.  **Proximity (8%)**: Users located in the same country/region.
6.  **Influence (7%)**: Balanced follower/following ratio.
7.  **Activity (5%)**: Recent code pushes (within last 7-30 days).

*Note: You will never be matched with people you already follow.*

## Architecture

GitHug uses a **hybrid architecture** to ensure security and performance:

- **Client (Frontend)**: React + Vite. Handles the UI, matching logic, and caching.
- **Server (Backend)**: Netlify Functions. Handles the secure OAuth token exchange with GitHub.

This separation ensures your `client_secret` never exposes to the browser.
To run the full application locally, you use the Netlify CLI to spin up both the frontend dev server and the functions server.

```bash
# Clone & install
git clone https://github.com/davidesantangelo/githug.git
cd githug
npm install

# Configure (see Setup below)
cp .env.example .env

# Run full stack (Split Terminal - Recommended)

# Terminal 1: Backend (Netlify Functions)
npm run dev:functions

# Terminal 2: Frontend (Vite)
npm run dev

# Or Vite only (mock mode, no OAuth)
npm run dev
```

- **Frontend**: [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173)
- **Backend**: [http://localhost:9999](http://localhost:9999)

## Setup

1. Create a [GitHub OAuth App](https://github.com/settings/developers) → **OAuth Apps** → **New OAuth App**
2. Set callback URL: `http://localhost:5173/callback`

   > **Important**: Use port **5173** even with `netlify dev` (port 8888 is just a proxy layer).

3. Copy Client ID & generate a Client Secret
4. Edit `.env`:

4. Edit `.env` (Set ports correctly):

```env
# Frontend (exposed to browser)
GITHUG_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
GITHUG_FUNCTION_URL=http://localhost:9999/.netlify/functions/auth

# Backend (Netlify function - keep secret!)
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
```

📖 See [SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md](SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md) for detailed instructions.

## Deploy to Netlify

1. Push to GitHub
2. Connect repo on [netlify.com](https://app.netlify.com)
3. Add environment variables (same as above, with production URLs)
4. Update GitHub OAuth App callback to `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback`
5. Deploy!

## Project Structure

```
githug/
├── src/
│   ├── App.jsx           # Main app component
│   ├── services/
│   │   └── github.js     # GitHub API & OAuth
│   └── lib/
│       └── utils.js      # Utilities
├── netlify/
│   └── functions/
│       └── auth.js       # OAuth token exchange
├── netlify.toml          # Netlify config
└── .env.example          # Env template
```

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Frontend only (Mock mode/UI) |
| `netlify dev` | Start Full Stack (Client + Functions) |
| `npm run dev:functions` | Start Functions server only |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run preview` | Preview production build |
| `npm run test` | Run tests in watch mode |
| `npm run test:run` | Run tests once |
| `npm run test:coverage` | Run tests with coverage report |

## License

MIT
