SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md, before:

# How to Activate Real GitHub Authentication

To switch from "Mock Mode" to real GitHub login, follow these steps:

## 1. Create a GitHub OAuth Application (OAuth App)

> **Important**: Create an **OAuth App**, NOT a **GitHub App**.  
> A GitHub App gives you an **App ID** (often numeric) and a different auth flow; using that ID here commonly results in a GitHub **404** on the authorize page.

1. Go to your [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers).
2. Under **OAuth Apps**, click **"New OAuth App"**.
3. Fill in the form:
   - **Application Name**: `GitHug Local` (or any name you like)
   - **Homepage URL**: `http://localhost:5173`
   - **Authorization callback URL**: `http://localhost:5173/callback`
4. Click **Register application**.

## 2. Get your Client ID and Client Secret

1. On the next screen, you will see **Client ID** (a string like `Iv1.abc123...`).
2. Click **"Generate a new client secret"** and copy the secret immediately (you won't see it again).

> If your "client id" is just a number, you're likely looking at a **GitHub App ID** (wrong for this flow).

## 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create (or edit) a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# Frontend (exposed to browser via Vite)
GITHUG_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback

# Backend (Netlify function) - keep these secret!
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret_here
GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
```

> **Note**: The `GITHUG_` prefix is configured in `vite.config.js` to expose frontend vars to the browser.  
> The `GITHUG_SERVER_` vars are only available server-side (in the Netlify function).

## 4. Run it locally

### Option A: With Netlify CLI (recommended)

```bash
npm install -g netlify-cli   # if you don't have it
netlify dev
```

This runs both Vite and the Netlify Functions locally on `http://localhost:8888`.

### Option B: Vite only (Mock mode)

```bash
npm run dev
```

Without the backend function, OAuth won't work and the app will run in **Mock Mode** with sample data.

## 5. Deploy to Netlify

1. Push your repo to GitHub.
2. Create a new site on [app.netlify.com](https://app.netlify.com) and connect your repo.
3. In **Site settings → Environment variables**, add:

   | Variable | Value |
   |----------|-------|
   | `GITHUG_CLIENT_ID` | your OAuth App Client ID |
   | `GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI` | `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback` |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID` | your OAuth App Client ID |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET` | your OAuth App Client Secret |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI` | `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback` |

4. **Update your GitHub OAuth App** with the production callback URL: `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback`

5. Deploy!

---

## Troubleshooting

### GitHub 404 on authorize page
- You created a **GitHub App** instead of an **OAuth App**.
- You pasted an **App ID** instead of the OAuth App **Client ID**.
- Your OAuth App URLs don't match your dev server (e.g. `5174` vs `5173`).

### Token exchange fails
- Make sure `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET` is set correctly.
- If running locally, use `netlify dev` to enable the backend function.

Commit message:

Improve onboarding, SEO, and UI polish for GitHug app
Updated README and setup docs for clearer local OAuth setup and port usage. Enhanced index.html with SEO, Open Graph, and Twitter meta tags. Replaced vite.svg favicon with favicon.png. Improved App.jsx UI: new match count display, loading indicators, and card styling. Tweaked color variables in index.css for better light/dark backgrounds. Updated netlify.toml to omit public config from secrets scanning.

SETUP_GITHUB_AUTH.md, after:

# How to Activate Real GitHub Authentication

To switch from "Mock Mode" to real GitHub login, follow these steps:

## 1. Create a GitHub OAuth Application (OAuth App)

> **Important**: Create an **OAuth App**, NOT a **GitHub App**.  
> A GitHub App gives you an **App ID** (often numeric) and a different auth flow; using that ID here commonly results in a GitHub **404** on the authorize page.

1. Go to your [GitHub Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/developers).
2. Under **OAuth Apps**, click **"New OAuth App"**.
3. Fill in the form:
   - **Application Name**: `GitHug Local`
   - **Homepage URL**: `http://localhost:5173`
   - **Authorization callback URL**: `http://localhost:5173/callback`

4. Click **Register application**.

## 2. Get your Client ID and Client Secret

1. On the next screen, you will see **Client ID** (a string like `Iv1.abc123...`).
2. Click **"Generate a new client secret"** and copy the secret immediately (you won't see it again).

> If your "client id" is just a number, you're likely looking at a **GitHub App ID** (wrong for this flow).

## 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create (or edit) a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
# Frontend (exposed to browser via Vite)
GITHUG_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
GITHUG_FUNCTION_URL=http://localhost:9999/.netlify/functions/auth

# Backend (Netlify function) - keep these secret!
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id_here
GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret_here
GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:5173/callback
```

> **Note**: The `GITHUG_` prefix is configured in `vite.config.js` to expose frontend vars to the browser.  
> The `GITHUG_SERVER_` vars are only available server-side (in the Netlify function).  
> **All redirect URIs use port 5173** because that's where Vite actually runs (netlify dev at :8888 is just a proxy).

## 4. Run it locally

### Option A: With Netlify CLI (recommended for full OAuth)

```bash
# Terminal 1 (Backend)
npm run dev:functions

# Terminal 2 (Frontend)
npm run dev
```

This starts:
- Netlify Functions on **`http://localhost:9999`**
- Vite dev server on **`http://localhost:5173`**

The app uses `GITHUG_FUNCTION_URL` to talk to the backend on port 9999.

### Option B: Netlify Dev (Experimental)

```bash
netlify dev
```

This runs everything on port 8888, but often causes confusion with ports. **Option A is recommended.**

## 5. Deploy to Netlify

1. Push your repo to GitHub.
2. Create a new site on [app.netlify.com](https://app.netlify.com) and connect your repo.
3. In **Site settings → Environment variables**, add:

   | Variable | Value |
   |----------|-------|
   | `GITHUG_CLIENT_ID` | your OAuth App Client ID |
   | `GITHUG_REDIRECT_URI` | `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback` |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_ID` | your OAuth App Client ID |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET` | your OAuth App Client Secret |
   | `GITHUG_SERVER_REDIRECT_URI` | `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback` |

4. **Update your GitHub OAuth App** with the production callback URL: `https://YOUR-SITE.netlify.app/callback`

5. Deploy!

---

## Troubleshooting

### GitHub 404 on authorize page
- You created a **GitHub App** instead of an **OAuth App**.
- You pasted an **App ID** instead of the OAuth App **Client ID**.
- Your OAuth App callback URL must be `http://localhost:5173/callback`.

### Token exchange fails
- Make sure `GITHUG_SERVER_CLIENT_SECRET` is set correctly.
- If running locally, use `netlify dev` to enable the backend function.
